run hello hello everyone and welcome to
the ipfs weekly call the first one in
2019 I'm glad to see everyone here we
will begin let's see so if you're in is
call if you could just put your name in
the attendee section of our call
document that'd be great and I'm putting
that in a chat right now so if you're
part of the call put your name in that'd
be great and we will begin this call
with announcements from Davi then we'll
get into our main presentation from
rüdiger and we will end our call with
questions and answers and you can put
your questions in the chat and that will
be our call today so without further ado
let us start with Davi
all right thank you so much so I have
like four little things
it's basically homework where everyone
to check out and so the first one is
that I try to paint a picture of what
our planning is so we have room maps we
have okay ours we have Kanban boards we
have all sorts of things and so I try to
ok like if I were to kind of like
distill this down and like understand
like where do we touch each of these
things like when we apply them when we
use them and I try to make like this one
slide it doesn't have very fancy
graphics it is just something I did with
keynotes but I hope it's helpful at
least it was helpful to me to guide
other people through hey like we have
row mapping this is a really really
plenty thing we have okay ours and this
is it fortunately planning and that we
track progress and or this is where our
meetings or our hack weeks coming to
play I to increase the shared
understanding of the group and I tackle
new new ideas our new problems and then
we have things that we help us like
super eyes every week like the same time
is a cars like this one the Kanban
boards and so on and so like we share
your feedback tell me if this is helpful
especially for people that are new to
this community that new to the project I
know there's a lot of details we have
been taking a lot of like we've been
investing a lot of time operating the
team management repo to also make sure
that the onboarding is super so that's
the first one please review that PR that
I just posted here on June that it also
promotes the the second thing is that I
want to it's a proposal it's basically
making the maintainer protocol or wide
so the mentor protocol was something
that was born within the JavaScript
ecosystem of my PFS project it is
something that basically recognizes like
contribution and and like like amazing
contributions from the community and
kind of like helps everyone move faster
by by giving more autonomy and so
instead of having the benevolent
dictator having the merge access for
every single repo I like getting Bush
access and making everyone wait it's
more about like describing what is the
expected responsibility of a maintainer
and then like inviting people to take
the responsibility for certain people's
it kind of like it's a way to distribute
knowledge to like help everyone
I feel more ownership of the project so
that that kind of like helps the project
move faster and and I think we can
upgrade these to make it work wide
throughout the other code projects
without following like we can have a
material for the specs people like
someone that can like label the issues
or at least give some feedback to people
that ask questions there or someone to
the Ducks repo at the website etc like
someone that are only is responsible to
like give some feedback but I also like
that can room the issue that kind of
label it that can be the first person
which is replying to a new question so
that's like there is more engagement and
so please review the PR and then the
next one is also available this is for
your bike ideas and so the next one is
about repo badges I love you know notice
and so I think they're helpful and right
now we went from 2,000 like 2017 where
there were no working groups to late
2018 where we have a working group
process and I working obsessed I wish
with their own okay ours and their own
teams and so on but now we have like
more like 544 repos across five
organizations and sometimes it's hard
who owns this repo who is responsible to
make sure like it's not you shouldn't be
archived or who do I ask questions about
the kill that is living here and
sometimes like that is kind of like
fuzzy there are projects that move from
one working group to another working
because they get put started more open
it makes more sense to other working you
to take it over so I think the badges
are a good idea like you put it better
the top of the Remi like you know we
belong so the working group can then
like check in and see the project that
they are tackling yeah I'll comment on
that PR as well and was another waste
the infamous please check here here's
requests there they're 10 open to
requests and I guess like
well everyone just came back from
holidays so just by Jane on all the
discussions that they have before all it
is but like please do as soon as
possible uh humpable can we shoot to
every Smerch by the end of this week
like the version that we commit to this
quarter so that we all have a shared
understanding all like what each working
group is going to focus it is also next
an opportunity for the community to kind
of page in of like what are going to be
our primary priorities for this quarter
and give us feedback maybe we are
missing something or there is something
that you will be very excited that you
don't know yet so okay I try to compress
this as much as possible they're all the
PR open feedback is accepted if you have
any questions now I'm happy to answer
maybe I raise your hand yeah let's say I
have about three minutes or so for
questions and you can put your questions
in the chat as a hairnet
yes I can have this as a comment on the
on the PR also but with the lead
maintainer protocol when I so when I got
involved in this project I was coming
from a space with that kind of approach
was the default when I pushed for that
in 2016 I was told that we but that's
dangerous because of the type of
software we're building that we have to
be more careful about controlling who
has merge ability on the repos and
people pointed to things like the Linux
kernel as a reference of projects that
are still open source but don't have
that wide open notion of who can who can
function as a maintainer and how people
become a maintainer
so do you have any thoughts on that like
has that changed is it that this what
you're proposing only applies to some
repos and not others and possibly your
latest proposal addresses this I haven't
read the latest version it's definitely
I can comment concerning open source
projects and that's why I there's
different strategies for different
projects the maintainer protocol the
wing maintainer protocol kind of like
tries to cover for that because in the
end it's not some sort like LM when
grabbing moment where like someone
just arrive and say now I'm the
maintainer for people it's kind of like
a a ritual process where someone by
contributing to the project by like
basically gaining trust with the other
contributors can then be nominated
invited to become the maintainer of
their people that said we actually like
still keep the tech leads to be the real
like the people that release the
top-level projects so go ipfs Jessup EFS
just like it appear like there is some
more kind of like proven work to be able
to release the thing that I could then
everyone installs we we are a little bit
more flexible with internal pieces the
building blocks that make these like
implementations and and so there's also
like a always a dual okay couple like
maintaining the repose is always a an
adventure between the maintainer of the
repo everyone that you already know that
is computing to that people as well and
the tech lead for that side of the
project and so the there is like the
actually not do it somewhere like a trio
in which like people kind of like just
help each other make sure that they are
making the right decisions reviewing the
PRS in a correct way that their writings
are getting merged that they are make it
like that the new maintain your's
actually get to the opportunity to learn
all the context from previous decisions
so when we implemented this image as
ecosystem like a big part of my role
like doing a transition was just
pointing people to issues where we had
discussion saying this is not a great
idea right now because we have consider
these situations and so as a human index
of all ipfs knowledge I was like just
like pointing people to like just like
gather and get that context as well as I
have it in my over time it's something
that kind of like spreads gossips over
and like more people become more
informed and more confident to make more
decisions but but still it is like a
concern to have and something to remind
ourselves to make sure to perhaps like
every quarter just do a round of my
chickens like let's see who has
permissions to what was for me
merchants is religious etc and if we
still feel confident that like that
setup that current structure is a right
one or not so I see a hand from Steven
and a hand from Molly in Chad's go ahead
I want to point out that the Linux
kernel actually has an Athena protocol
as well where each module has because
maintainers file that says who maintains
it and Linux will like do a get pull
from there I post emergent changes but I
think you can solve the final control
but he doesn't necessarily go everything
with a fine-tooth comb yeah in fact what
we have it was Iraqi fest where like we
even have separate ministry individual
rep O's we still control like you're one
person so controls when those changes
actually get brought in to go across
itself I think my points raised in light
of Stevens which is just um
I like the idea who's making a protocol
I like that it kind of diffuses
responsibility for different areas and I
think it's more accurate for actually
the way that we develop on a lot of
these different things there are experts
on this throughout the community for
different areas of the code base and one
individual is not the expert for an
entire implementation of ipfs in a
certain language and however I do think
that there's layers of feedback that
happen throughout and for example
someone who might be the expert on one
module might not be the person who is
setting long-term strategic direction
for where that module heads and it's
kind of a we do still have these kind of
maintain like lead maintainer roles so
like we have like lead maintainer forego
ipfs that might provide feedback to many
different module maintainer x' and then
we might have lead maintainer for IP of
s that might provide feedback to many
different captain's across to us and go
in other communities and i think that's
something that we should just continue
to to support and make sure we use it
and as long as this doesn't agree
disagree with that I'm a hundred percent
on board I'll just throw in the rest of
my comments in that in the PR thing I'll
just point out that Steven said this is
what we already having go ipfs so
david's proposal is proposing to change
that so
if two beads proposing that we should
take this protocol and apply it across
the rest of the work is it a protocol
that's already in place Ingo ipfs or not
so they're like I'm confused on what's
changing and what's staying the same
then right that this was what we haven't
got that is the technique controlling
what goes in and out collected myself
the Munroe not the wrestling maintainer
protocol currently he goes because I
pretty much anyone with right actors
converse things to other opposed except
for the gopis main one I think this one
would basically delegate control
specifically this is responsible for
this rep out of this person's on for
this replica cetera
I believe in JavaScript this one person
I don't know if I think there's one
person responsible for the main rep
though but I don't know so as I guess
like a good clarification is really to
like just go to the the protocol itself
so there's everyone by choosing on what
is described there but but like you as a
point of clarification for the whole
group there's definitely a distinction
between them and Dana of the repo and so
the person that can review the requests
that can give advice that can label the
issue that can given that like all of
the criteria were met for a pull request
and merge and therefore then release
that code and then there is other people
in the projects that kind of like spread
their responsibilities across multiple
areas of their expertise that are this
like typically titled the tech leads of
the project that actually have more a
clear understanding like what is the
strategic trajectory that the project is
taking until the maintainer protocol is
not clear by trying to silo people into
being responsible for the whole strategy
office in your repo it is more like
distributing the responsibility the
ownership of the multiple pieces of the
place and giving people autonomy to to
be able to like merge code review or
review the feedback merge code and like
the real result is that you get a code
base and I can a repo base that is way
more curated way more groomed that way
that contributors get responses way
faster because that there is more people
to home ask questions and so yeah I
guess like there's like some things
like if s is already doing that are
described here they are just not
explicitly declare for quite people in
in what is for call like proposes just
like making it explicit so that's like
newcomers kind understand what it means
but but yeah like I apologize or K we
are taking too much time so I'll
off now and I believe you're muted
you're speaking yesterday if anyone has
any other conditional concerns or
questions you can leave the issues leave
an issue and they github link in the
chat so without further ado we will
begin our main presentation
rudiger is going to explain how he uses
IP FS in is your is name to go your
company attics active awesome thank you
take it away okay so two words about me
I'm old guy I've been doing software
development since professionally so paid
money since to the 1999 and I've got the
10 years experience in the space
industry and in 2016 I was kind of
convinced by a good friend of mine
wouldn't cool who is CTO backticks to
drone tactics and now I'm going to share
my screen and talk a little bit about
what we do without FS and that takes and
what we do in general also and I will be
interesting for you so can see that this
mechanic okay okay so first of all first
of all a few words about ethics so
ethics
the startup founded in 2016
there's three founders two mechanical
engineers one is a software engineer and
physicist and so we have some domain
knowledge in both manufacturing and
software we are based in Munich Central
Europe but just as protocol labs we are
fully distributed engineering team but
since we are in a very early stage we
confine ourselves to the European time
zones so we got people in Madrid and in
Sofia that that's the extent of it but
we wouldn't hire somebody in the US or
in New Zealand
unfortunately so what we do we a very
high level overview what we do is we are
doing digitalization of manufacturing
processes so we have a very clear focus
on the shop floor so what we want to do
we don't want to replace anything in the
front office like an ERP or any customer
relationship whatever we only interested
in things that have more on the shop
floor so directly related to
manufacturing and that's a very big area
and in Germany in the Central Europe so
one thing that that always comes up when
when we talk about what we do is all
right they're doing robots and actually
that's not what we do that's not not the
core of it what we do is not primarily
about automation so what we do basically
we want to have a way to coordinate all
the things that have been the factory
whether it's a robot that's that's doing
something or a worker or some kind of
logistics that's happening any process
that happens in a factory at a high
level is something we are interested in
to to automate or to physio facilitate
and you could say I mean obviously there
are some cases where automation is very
useful I mean if you have a place with
which stamps metal pieces you don't want
the human to do that but there are lots
of lots of situations where humans are
quite quite
adjectives and so what we want to do
kind of a mission statement is we want
to use digital technology to keep you
labour competitive with automation so
it's not just about automating
everything but basically make sure that
humans is efficient as they can be in a
factory and I got a quote for this from
either musk yes excessive automation at
Tesla was a mistake to be precise my
mistake
humans are underrated and that's
something we can really get behind and
acting's okay so that's a big picture of
you so far we have basically been
development developing applications for
various customers in Europe and this
year we're going to get a little bit
more open about something were kind of a
long term vision which is acting so s
which is essentially an operating system
for factories and it's a very long topic
I could talk about this for 50 minutes
of 20 or but the basic idea is we want
to allow people that have manufacturing
domain knowledge so they know how many
fetching works but they don't have this
immune systems knowledge it's quite a
few of those people and we want these
people to enable these people to write
resilient applications for manufacturing
so we want to enable them to be able to
write applications which are petition
tolerant so they work when there's some
kind of network error in the factory and
they are distributed so there's no
single point of failure and that's
that's the basic idea of acting cos okay
so just before I go into details how
exactly we use a TFS I just want to show
a few pictures from our customers so
this is a glass manufacturing plant
these houses that you see there are
basically they are glowing red because
they have been have been just produced
out of a block of molten glass and this
is an industrial tablet and an Android
tablet which is used by the worker to
call
what's happening here so for example if
there's some kind of error in one of the
machines you cannot the error here and
so on and this is running yet acting so
s and acting supplications and it's also
running ipfs obviously because we are
using active s kind of light so on
networking stack so to speak this is
another application this is public
transport maintenance facility so in
time for Germany there is a facility
that performs regular maintenance on
subway trains and in order to coordinate
what needs to be done for this regular
maintenance there's basically these two
things they have to do and then there's
not will be some things that they do
based on me so something's broken they
fix it and to cooperate this here also
we have the Android tablet which is
attached to distinguish coffee shop
floor board and there we have the acting
supplication running so this is a
close-up view of the thing as you can
see this is a very very normal Android
tablet but it's from a software point of
view well it's a little bit more
expensive and it's and it's rocked so
it's watertight and you can drop it from
2 meters of concrete without breaking
which is very helpful in the factory so
it's way more robust than my macbook pro
and as you can see this is running an
application which allows you to track
progress on some production step and you
can lock how many things you have
produced and you can say you know I'm
finished with the activity is this
something called production data
acquisition and are going to detail
about that a little bit later this is
another application in this case this is
in a inner machine in a manufacturing
machine there are these Edina rails
where where all the equipment is that
the powers the machine and in addition
to all the usual equipment that this
machine there is this this grey box is
an industrial raspberry pie so it has a
very fancy name but essentially is a
raspberry pie with more
case and this is also running yet its
platform so it's also running go
Adventist and this obviously this kind
of machine can only be used for ready
low death rates so some kind of counters
you cannot be use for machine learning
but if you just want to get some data
and this is this way to go they are not
that expensive and they are very racked
and you just put them into into these
derails and connect them to the machine
so I said that we are what we want to do
is we want to replace paper and
manufacturing and just just to give you
an idea what exactly is meant by that
this is a manual production data
acquisition form which is filled out by
the worker so every time they do
something every now every time they
produce something they fill out these
forms and this is something we can
replace with our application and if you
look at this you think all this looks
very 80s but actually that's not at all
the case if you go into even even very
reasonably modern factories you will see
that the front office is very modern but
once you go down to the shop floor
you'll always see these paper based
production production orders not in our
factories but in a very very large
fraction of the small to medium sized
factories you still have this and it's
not not all that because you know one
thing about paper is that it always
works so you don't need a cloud
connection to write something on this
piece of paper and that's why people are
not a little bit hesitant to replace
paper and in order to convince people to
replace paper by something digital it
has to be really robust so this is the
last slide of this part so this is all
the places where we have active
solutions deployed and they're all
running ipfs so these are a bunch of
factories in in central europe where we
have all our software deployed and we
have also ipfs deployed mostly they are
pretty small deployments we're trying to
grow them next year but
it's very nice to have these things
actually in production so we build them
for this actually okay so now I want to
go a little bit into detail why exactly
we have chosen I possess so one thing I
was interested in content in a storage
even before I learned about ipfs I'll
get uses it so kind of everybody knows
it since 2008 or whatever and I think
especially for a manufacturing data it's
very nice to have this safety against
data corruption because the data is kind
of important it might be that some some
batch of comm production is is deficient
and then you have to prove that you did
everything according to to the rules and
if you have content read storage there
is not much way to tamper with the data
so that's very important property for us
it was of our customers next things
auditability you can basically have an
audit trail which which you can prove
that is at a certain time and if it's
certain factory some things happen and
location transparency I mean I don't
have to tell you that but basically you
just ask for as you get it you don't
care where exactly it is so petition
tolerance is also very important for us
like I mentioned we want to replace
paper and one thing that's really great
about papers that always works you don't
have to have the piece of paper or
connect it to another piece of paper
just take to be some paper at the pen
and that's it and so if you want to
replace paper we have to have to build
on something which is also resilient
that's basically where we use invest
well and yeah Patricia burrows is very
important for us basically so for what
do we use ipfs so so our core platform
is essentially a distributed event
sourcing system and when we use ideas
for primary
the storage and distribution of events
so if you have one of these tablets and
as soon as you do something other on the
tablet like you start a fractional order
you you start on something you report an
error and event gets created and we use
at invest to store the event and also to
get it on the other devices which might
be interested in the event next thing is
diploma with large assets so we have
quite some work instruction videos if
you have some kind of manual production
step then often the factories have
videos which tell the workers exactly
how this step is to be performed and
it's quite useful body to be able to
take a large number of videos and put
them on lots of devices using ipfs and
it doesn't work as good and as it's
supposed to work we'll get to that later
but in principle it's it's a great way
to distribute large assets and I given
that these factories often have a very
very slow connection to the calendar so
imagine you have 20 devices and each of
them was about the video that would not
be good so we also use a FSS
infrastructure for a particular
development so basically all our
developers are all in the private swarm
and they can interact with with each
other and try the app in that and we use
it as an app as a factor pasta free it
sounds fancy but basically just a
directory with with artifacts in it so
what features do we use well what we see
we use content Lehrer storage that's
probably not noteworthy but the next
thing is a little bit more noteworthy we
use private swarms obviously we don't
want to become tell our customers you
will be joined to the public IP festival
so we use private swarms each customized
its own swarm the developers have their
own swarm and so on and that's an
experimental feature as of now as far as
I know we use pops up which is very
important to get events from different
devices which is also experimental at
this time and we use
ans but not that much anymore because we
keep running into trouble with that we
would love to use it again but like
sometimes we try to use it and then we
have run to some problems and then we
decide to do good in a different way
okay so devices that we support so first
of all we support Linux based in Austin
pcs could be these tiny PI Raspberry Pi
a machine so it could be some huge
machine learning rigs but basically it
has to be Linux based then we have these
Android based industrial tablets like
the one I've shown and we also have n
dot based barcode scanners for logistics
applications so this this is a barcode
scanner basically it's an Android tablet
which has a laser which can scan
barcodes these things are actually quite
neat they can scan barcodes over a
distance of 20 meters so if you have a
large warehouse you can scatter back out
in the in the highest row and last but
not least we also use fields based photo
machines so the philosophy is always to
get our node as close as possible to the
data source or sink so if the customer
has an ERP for example on side you put a
virtual machine next to the EAP so
basically in the same rack and if the
customer has some sub cloud system we
also put a system in the north of our
system in the same cloud as close as
possible basically so the network
network topology speaking okay so this
lets interrupt this little bit and do a
little demo will be hard to recognize
but I still think it's fun to series so
this is one of these industrial Android
tablets and on that you can see this is
for a workstation which is called hand
cleaning and there you have the
different activities which are which can
be performed at a workstation and then
the work
basically tap on one activity and then
you can join the activity so now
basically you would be working on that
activity at the time that it's working
on that activity would be locked and
then well there's all kinds of ways to
interact with that but I don't want to
go into details but one thing I want to
show we also have the ability to for
each production step we have a list of
documents which can be PDF files which
describe how something is to be done or
also videos the videos are most most
challenging from a data point of view
obviously so inside the app we have the
ability to play make some videos which
are like instructional videos how to
prefer perform these these work steps as
you can see he takes a proper protective
clothing and all that stuff basically
and these videos come from my device
running on this on this device okay so I
think it's pretty hard to see over at
the webcam so but I think you got an
idea right so I'm going to share again
we are yeah we are running low on time
so do you mind if we go into a questions
and answers yes I mean just just once
all right okay okay so this is basically
how we do it on the on the Android
devices so we got a shell app and abet
view in which we got the our acting's
apps and these act accepts that's one
thing that you might find confusing they
talk to go I profess process by a REST
API so we don't use JSF s and we also
don't use JSF s API for various reasons
but we
just use the REST API directly we have
got business running on this Android
device okay yeah so questions awesome
one thank you very much
that was amazing presentation yay great
thank you very much if you have a
question if you could put it in the chat
that would be great Han okay Molly this
is awesome and I'm curious whether or
what you've experienced or how much
interest there is from various factory
clients around kind of a either a
resiliency or an offline sort of
perspective of being able to kind of run
and host this content in a more
distributed fashion and curious from
from your perspective having a lot of
those conversations what you've
experienced in terms of their feedback
and how much the factor that is for them
well it is I mean very much depends some
customers are not really aware of of the
problems with with having a centralized
application but they will definitely
notice once it breaks and you often have
these situations where the factory kind
of doesn't work because the ERP
currently is broken because the ERP is
in a different location so once you
explain to them that this would not
happen it's it's actually it's a good
sell then and then in other situations
you you actually they they immediately
understand the benefit for example in we
have logistics applications and they are
basically you have a scanner and you
track material movements and they often
don't have good Wi-Fi coverage in their
warehouse so they immediately understand
that they need to be able to to perform
a movement without having Wi-Fi coverage
because it's impossible to get good
Wi-Fi coverage in a warehouse full of
like metal barrels so many people
actually get it sometimes we have to
help them a little bit to understand but
they they get the benefit definitely
it's just the half thing is that we need
to have a programming model which is
easy enough that that people don't have
to be distributed systems experts to
write this software because otherwise I
mean these these people are domain
experts I really really really know
about their domain but they don't know
about petition for rents or cap theorem
or CID T's or any of that and they
shouldn't have to know right totally
thank you one one Hector Hector I'm
sorry Hector barely know yes that's
better
Thanks are you using the b2b for custom
levels or for logging into your devices
remotely and so on well the switch is
kind of new so currently we don't use it
but when it was released we were
immediately thinking about that that we
there would be several ways we could use
it so we're thinking about it let's put
it that way okay thank you it's it's
very very useful because these companies
often have a very respective firewall
and any way to get around there would be
very useful yes but I was thinking ok um
we can take one more question
does anyone else have a question if not
we will end here one I want to thank
ridiger thank you very much for
presenting this was amazing too if you
have any additional questions after the
presentation you can leave them in a
comment section and three next week
Terry
we'll be presenting proto school so
proto school it's not the launch is next
week but if you want to experiment with
proto school then please go ahead it's
really exciting and if you actually want
to start proto school meet up in your
city plea I'll leave those weights in
the comments section you can go and
start a proto school network in your
city so thank you ever thank you
everyone for a 10 to the ipfs weekly
meeting and I will see you next week
take care bye